Please check the resources section of this lecture.
There is a PDF download to accompany this lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to look at the software you need to complete the course.
We also need to look at two important terms Shell and secure shell.
You can use any operating system to complete this course, Windows, Mac and Linux.
I do need to point out that certain lectures are specific to certain operating systems.
If the lecture does not specify an operating system, then it's for all operating systems.
They are full categories of software that you need.
Firstly, the text editor, a text editor is the most widely used software for any web developer.
I'm sure you have your favorite text editor, so please feel free to use it.
You also need a SFP client to upload and download files to and from your server.
I use and recommend only files if you Google files the very first entry files.
Zillah hyphen project dot org is the file Zyla site file.
Zila is cross platform.
So Windows and Mac users you can download and install files onto the next users.
You will find files in your distributions repositories.
The choice of browser is yours.
The last category of software we need is a terminal emulator.
Now you may be wondering what is a terminal emulator.
Before I get to that, I want to introduce you to two terms.
What is the shell and what is secure shell?
The Shell is a program that allows for user interaction.
It takes your commands from the keyboard and gives them to the operating system to perform.
The programs you use to interact with the shell are called terminal emulators as we are giving commands
from the keyboard.
It is called the command line interface.
In easy terms, you type a command, the shell accepts the command and passes it on to the operating
system to perform.
The shell is like a layer of software between you, the user and the operating system.
Secure Shell is also abbreviated using is this which you will be using in this age to connect to your
server?
Is this is a program that allows you to connect to remote servers safely by safely.
What I mean is all the data exchanged between you and the server is encrypted.
An attacker cannot hijack the connection when encryption is enabled, encryption is transparent.
What that means is you can work normally knowing that your daughter is safely encrypted on the network.
What all that means is you connect to your server using a secure shell and the connection is encrypted.
Each operating system has its own choice in terminal emulators.
For Mac users, you will be using terminal terminal as found in your utilities folder.
The utilities folder can be opened with command shift and you command shift.
You will open the utilities folder.
It's track terminal to the dock.
I'd like you to open terminal with terminal.
I'd like you to open preferences at the top.
We have general profiles, window groups.
I'd like you to click on profiles, the color scheme, fonts, etc. can be customized to your liking.
There is one setting that I'd like you to disable.
Profiles advanced.
I'd like you to uncheck the set local environment variables on start up keeping the setting enabled
generates local errors on your server.
You can close preferences and close terminal for Linux users.
You have a tremendous selection of terminal emulators terminal Terminix Terminator terminology.
What I suggest is download each one, try it.
If you like it, stick with it.
Windows users, you don't have a built in terminal emulator, so we are going to be using command rather
than my previous choice of party.
Many students have had issues using Patty, Patty, Gene and Patty secure copy.
It's time for Windows users to start using a modern day terminal emulator.
We are going to cover downloading, installing as well as the configuration of commander.
We also need to look at copying and pasting.
Using Camarda.
I'd like you to open your browser and then open the site.
Commander Dot net s.m Deol dot net on the command home page.
If you scroll a little way down, you'll reach the download options.
You have to download many or download full.
I would like you to please download the full version.
You can download either the zip file or a seven.
So far I've downloaded Commander, there is the seven zip file, CMT or DOT seven zip.
I'd like you to copy the file.
Then I'd like you to click on local desk, see in the right hand pane, we want to create a new folder.
You can right click new folder folder.
We want to create is s.m DVR.
You can then open the commander folder and paste the seven or the file into that folder.
You can extract all the files in the folder you created.
I'm going to delete my seven Sopra, there is no set up file, you can record Camarda as a portable
app commander.
You can right click something to create a shortcut on your desktop that makes it somewhat easier when
you need to open, commander.
You can open, commander, initially, when you open commander, commander will automatically generate
a few configuration files, you can ignore the automatically generated config files.
I'd like you to put your mouse pointer somewhere on the title and right click and then select settings.
The settings under general fonts, size and position, appearance, etc. allows you to customize the
appearance of commander.
Please feel free to customize Commander to your liking.
There are a few settings that we need to make start up specified name task.
You can click the dropdown arrow and select Besch Besch.
When we start, Commander, we want you to run as a Besch console.
Under environment, you can click the blank area on the right hand side you can add sit home equals
C colon backslash s.m.
The home is in uppercase.
What we have done there is set the home directory.
You can scroll down and click on keys and macra to hotkeys.
You can click, you can type in C tr control W.
That is a shortcut that we are going to be using with the editor.
Neno we cannot allow Commander to overrule that key shortcut.
So what we do is control, change it to win.
So we have changed control w to when w you can click paste.
Beast mode, one paced mode to multi lions, multi lions, so for the purposes of the course, those
are the settings I'd like you to change taking care of under General.
Please decide on which font you would like the size and position of the command window, the appearance
of the window, those settings you can change on your own.
I'd like you to click save settings.
We need to create the dot s h directory.
I'd like you to type in M.K. DII or make directory devah space dot s h.
If I talk ellis' to list you won't see DSH today.
This is a hidden directory.
Any file or directory that starts with a period is hidden.
Adding the hyphen, a flag will display dot ss h that is command configuration taken care of when it
comes to copying and pasting with Commander.
If you want to copy and paste some text inside the Camarda window, drag over the text.
When you let go of the left button, the text that is highlighted has been copied to your clipboard.
If you click all right, click.
You will deselect that text and then right click to paste.
If I want to copy and paste some text from an outside application, you select a text and then select
copy in the command.
A window, right.
Click to paste bag over the text.
You can paste it into any other application at any stage.
If I ask you to open terminal and log into your server, you will open.
Commander, the very first command you're going to be talking is to log in to your server.
Is this OK?
The user will be reached at followed by your servers IP address.
Using commander is exactly the same as using terminal on A or terminal on and the next machine that
is command get used to command.
You are going to be using commander frequently throughout the course.
In this lecture we looked at setting up various terminal simulators.
For additional information, please refer to the PDF attached to this lecture.